Combine skeleton tutorials into materials science topic (#4)
muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/training-material: topics/materials-science/tutorials/muspinsim/tutorial.md

entire experiment, though it is possible for the user to also set custom local
magnetic fields for individual spins (representing for example the effect of
nearby paramagnetic nuclei). The Hamiltonian written explicitly is:

$$
\mathcal{H}_Z = 2\pi\hbar\sum_i^N \gamma_i (\mathbf{B}+\mathbf{B}_i)\mathbf{S}_i
$$

The sum is intended over all spins, with the gyromagnetic ratios depending on
the nuclei's own properties. The magnetic field here was split in two parts, a
global and a local one which bears the index of the spin. Of course, both of
these can be zero, and by default are if the user does not specify anything.
$$\mathbf{S}_i$$ is the vector of spin operators.

We can execute the workflow that uses Zeeman coupling in one go, but to aid
understanding we will describe each step in detail below.

## MuSpinSim Configure

The first step is to generate a configuration file for the rest of the process.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `zeeman`
>    - *"Spins"*:

> >      - *"Spins to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:

> >      - *"Interactions to simulates"*:

Reviewer: Typo that is not present on dev.
```suggestion
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `Zeeman`
>          - *"Index of coupled spin"*: `1`
>          - *"Zeeman coupling vector"*: `0 0 20.0/muon_gyr`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 0.1, 100)`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `No`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file zeeman` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

> The output of this tool is `txt` file, formatted for MuSpinSim to use for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of this tool is a `txt` file, formatted for MuSpinSim to use for the
```

the simulation itself. While there are a lot of parameters being defined, we can

> focus on the *"Interactions to simulates"* section. Here we define only one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
focus on the *"Interactions to simulate"* section. Here we define only one
```

coupling, Zeeman, and we define its direction (aligned with the $$z$$ axis),
strength ($$20.0$$) and units. The coupling value is implicitly assumed to be in
terms of frequency ($$MHz$$); this is more intuitive when viewing the final plot
of the data. MuSpinSim will therefore interpret this as "a magnetic field strong
enough to cause oscillations at $$20MHz$$" using the inverse of the muon's
gyromagnetic ratio $$135.5388 MHz/T$$ (i.e. a field strength of $$0.1475T$$).
MuSpinSim supports a number of keyword arguments (we can also note the use of
the Python `range` function) and these are described
[here](https://muon-spectroscopy-computational-project.github.io/muspinsim/input/).
Although not explicitly stated, the unit for time is $$\mu s$$.

## MuSpinSim Simulate

> Now that we have defined the conditions, can simulate them during the next step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have defined the conditions, we can simulate them during the next step
```

spin resonance simulations. It represents an interaction between an electronic
spin and a nuclear one (muon or otherwise). While physically it is often
distinguished in two terms - a Fermi contact term due to the electronic spin
density at the site of the nucleus as well as a dipolar part at a distance -
these are effectively both incorporated in a single $$3\times3$$ symmetric tensor
with non-zero trace. The following interaction between spins is written like this:

$$
\mathcal{H}_{hfine} = 2\pi\hbar \sum_{i < j}^N \mathbf{S}_i\mathbf{A}_{ij}\mathbf{S}_j
$$

(assuming a hyperfine tensor in frequency units). MuSpinSim also makes sure that
hyperfine terms can only be defined when one of the two spins is confirmed to be
an electron.

While there are some changes from the previous example, the overall workflow is
largely the same.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As in the previous example, we start with configuration.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `hfine`
>    - *"Spins"*:

> >      - *"Spins to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `e`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:

> >      - *"Interactions to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
```

>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `hfine.dat`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

![Resultant plot of asymmetry against time for the Zeeman Example](../../images/hfine_example.png "The asymmetry oscillates above 0 over the time of the simulation")

Note that while the range of values asymmetry takes has changed, we can once
again observe that that our period of $$0.1 \mu s$$ matches the input of
$$10MHz$$.

# Workflow 3 - Hyperfine Coupling with powder averages

In this workflow, we will continue to use hyperfine coupling, but with an
anisotropic tensor including non-zero off-diagonal elements. We will also use
the *"Orientations"* section of the configuration to simulate an experiment on a
powdered sample.

In a powdered sample, each fragment is treated as being randomly orientated such

> that it is equivalent an average over all possible rotations of a crystalline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that it is equivalent to an average over all possible rotations of a crystalline
```

sample. In simulation, there are multiple ways of achieving this average
supported by MuSpinSim. Regardless, each orientation will have its own
contribution to the "powder" average, and we should expect to see this reflected
in the final plot we obtain.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As in the previous example, we start with configuration.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `hfine_powder`
>    - *"Spins"*:

> >      - *"Spins to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `e`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:

> >      - *"Interactions to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `hyperfine`
>          - *"Index of nuclear coupled spin"*: `1`
>          - *"Index of electronic coupled spin"*: `2`
>          - *"Hyperfine coupling tensor"*: `5 2 3` `2 5 2` `3 2 5`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `0.01`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Orientations"*:
>        - *"Orientations 1"*:
>          - *"Orientation"*: `Euler angles helper function (eulrange(n))`
>          - *"n"*: `10`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 0.1)`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `No`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):

> >    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file hfine` (Output dataset)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file hfine_powder` (Output dataset)
```

>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file hfine` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

## MuSpinSim Plot

Similarly aside from labelling there are no differences with the plotting
parameters.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Plot](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_plot) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Hyperfine (with powder averaging) Example`
>    - *"Label for x axis"*: `t`
>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `hfine.dat`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

![Resultant plot of asymmetry against time for the powdered example](../../images/powder_example.png "The asymmetry oscillates, but also decays over time")

> As discussed earlier, our final plot is the sum of 1000 individual oscillations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As discussed earlier, our final plot is the average of 1000 individual oscillations.
```

Each has its own frequency, and so as time progresses they end up increasingly
out of phase. The result is that the oscillations decay as the contributions
begin to cancel each other out.

# Workflow 4 - Avoided Level Crossing

An Avoided Level Crossing (ALC) experiment which involves three spins - a muon,

> electron and hydrogen atom. As a result we need two hyperfine tensors, one for

Reviewer: This doesn't quite make sense.

Author: Will change the wording to be more similar to [the example in the MuSpinSim docs](https://muon-spectroscopy-computational-project.github.io/muspinsim/examples/#example-4-avoided-level-crossing), and ensure that it uses full sentences. Let me know if it still doesn't make sense.

both the muon and hydrogen to interact with the electron.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As in the previous example, we start with configuration.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} with the following parameters:

> >    - *"Name"*: `hfine_powder`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>    - *"Name"*: `alc`
```

>    - *"Spins"*:

> >      - *"Spins to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `e`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `custom`
>          - *"Species name"*: `H`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:

> >      - *"Interactions to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `hyperfine`
>          - *"Index of nuclear coupled spin"*: `2`
>          - *"Hyperfine coupling tensor"*: `580 5 10` `5 580 9` `10 9 580`
>        - *"Interactions to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `hyperfine`
>          - *"Index of nuclear coupled spin"*: `3`
>          - *"Hyperfine coupling tensor"*: `150 3 4` `3 150 5` `4 5 150`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `Avoided Level Crossing (ALC)`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `range(1.8, 2.6, 100)`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Orientations"*:
>        - *"Orientations 1"*:
>          - *"Orientation"*: `Zaremba-Conroy-Wolfsberg helper function (zcw(n))`
>          - *"n"*: `20`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `No`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):

> >    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file hfine` (Output dataset)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file alc` (Output dataset)
```

>
{: .hands_on}

The method of defining the hyperfine tensors is unchanged, however we now have
two of them, with the respective index noted. Our experiment parameters have
also changed. We use a predefined *"Experiment type"* instead of manually
defining our $$x$$ and $$y$$ axes, and now have a `range` of values for our
magnetic field. Note that we have also changed to the other helper function

> for orientation angles, `zcw`. This is cheaper as it only generates $$n$$ polar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for orientation angles to `zcw`. This is cheaper as it only generates $$n$$ polar
```

Author: In order to replace the `,` with `to` will need to alter the ealier part of the sentence by removing `to [...] other`:
```
Note that we have also changed the helper function for orientation angles to `zcw`.
```
But I agree that this reads better with this change.

angles, but should only be used for cases where polar angles are sufficient.
This is the case here thanks to the experiment's longitudinal polarisation.

## MuSpinSim Simulate

As all our changes are captured in the config file, this step operates exactly
as before.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Simulate](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Configuration file containing simulation parameters"*: `muspinsim input file hfine` (Input dataset)
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-collection %} `Muspinsim output collection` (Output dataset)
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file hfine` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

## MuSpinSim Plot

Here we define two file series to plot, but use the same dataset for each.

> Effectively this will give use both points and a connecting line between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effectively this will give us both points and a connecting line between them.
```

>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

![Resultant plot of asymmetry against magnetic field for the ALC example](../../images/alc_example.png "The plot shows two distinct peaks in response to the magnetic field")

# Workflow 5 - Temperature

In this example we look at the effect of temperature on the system. Many of the
parameters are the same as they were in
[Workflow 2](#workflow-2---hyperfine-coupling), but with an external static
field of $$1T$$. This means that the difference in energy between the "up" and
"down" states for the electron is given by:

$$
\Delta E = 2\pi\hbar \gamma_e \cdot (1 \,\mathrm{T}) =  2\pi\hbar \cdot (28024.95 \,\mathrm{MHz}) \approx 1.159\cdot 10^{-4} \,\mathrm{eV}
$$

The scale of this energy is much higher than anything that can come out of the
hyperfine coupling between electron and muon (only 10 MHz), so we're safely in
the area of validity of the high field approximation. In terms of temperature
scale, we expect the high temperature ($$T \approx \infty$$) regime will be
valid for:

$$
T \gg \frac{1.159\cdot 10^{-4} \,\mathrm{eV}}{ k_B} \approx 1.35 \,\mathrm{K}.
$$

> For this reason, we make a comparison between two versions of the same system, one with $T=\infty$ and one with $T = 1 \,\mathrm{K}$, low enough to be out of the high temperature regime. The expected behaviour is as follows:

Reviewer: This line's equations don't format correctly, I think its just missing extra $.

* the external field sets a base Larmor frequency of 135.54 MHz for the muon. The hyperfine interaction adds or subtracts 5 MHz based on whether the electron is up or down;
* for very low T, the electron will start entirely in one state, aligned with the external magnetic field. In this case we expect the signal to be a single cosinusoid at 140.54 MHz;
* for very high T, the electron will be in a statistical ensemble of up and down state, and we expect the signal to be an average of two cosinusoids at 140.54 and 130.54 MHz respectively.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As we are simulating two different temperatures, we need a configuration file
for each.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `Low T` / `High T`
>    - *"Spins"*:

> >      - *"Spins to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `e`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:

> >      - *"Interactions to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `hyperfine`
>          - *"Index of nuclear coupled spin"*: `1`
>          - *"Hyperfine coupling tensor"*: `10 0 0` `0 10 0` `0 0 10`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `1.0`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 0.1, 100)`
>      - *"Temperatures"*:
>        - *"Temperature 1"*:
>          - *"temperature"*: `1.0` / `inf`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `No`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):

> >    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file hfine` (Output dataset)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file Low T / High T` (Output dataset)
```

>
{: .hands_on}

![Resultant plot of the low and high temperature systems](../../images/temperature_example.png "The asymmetry oscillates differently in the low and high temperature regimes")

The high temperature limit corresponds to the sum of two slightly out of phase
cosinusoids, while the low temperature example is closer to a single wave. You
can try experimenting with changing the temperature and re-running the
simulation to see how it affects the result.

# Workflow 6 - Dissipation

Here we introduce another type of interaction for the muon: dissipation. Our
muon is polarised in the $$x$$ direction, but the field applied is aligned with
$$z$$. Under this perpendicular field, we expect the oscillations to decay
according to the dissipation strength we provide.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As in the previous example, we start with configuration.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `dissipation`
>    - *"Spins"*:

> >      - *"Spins to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:

> >      - *"Interactions to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
```

>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 3`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Simulation`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Green`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Point type"*: `Square`
>        - *"Point Scale"*: `3.0`
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 2`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Theory`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

Here we would like to compare the output of MuSpinSim with the theoretical
expression given earlier. For this we need to provide a second dataset as input
to the plot in the expected format. You should have imported such a dataset at

> the start of this, tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the start of this tutorial.
```

![Resultant plot of asymmetry dissipating over time](../../images/dissipation_example.png "The output of MuSpinSim agrees with the theoretical behaviour")

# Workflow 7 - Fitting 

Finally, we can fit data with MuSpinSim. As in the previous workflow the
experimental setup for this will be a dissipation interaction, however the
strength of the dissipation will be the variable controlling our fit.

While experimental data would usually be the target for fitting, here we will
use the analytical solution with added noise.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As in the previous example, we start with configuration.

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Tool details
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `fitting`
>    - *"Spins"*:

> >      - *"Spins to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
```

>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:

> >      - *"Interactions to simulates"*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
```

>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `1.0/muon_gyr`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 1.0, 50)`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `Yes`
>      - *"Method to use to fit the data"*: `Nelder-Mead`
>      - *"Variable to fit to the experimental datas"*:
>        - *"Variable to fit to the experimental data 1"*:
>          - *"Name of the variable"*: `g`
>          - *"Starting value"*: `0.1`
>          - *"minimum bound"*: `0.0`
>          - *"maximum bound*: `inf`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `out_file` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

In order to perform the fitting, we have replaced the numerical *"Dissipation"*
with a variable, `g`. We then need to provide details of this variable in the
*"Fitting Parameters"* section: it's starting value, minimum and maximum bound.
Finally we need to provide the method to use. Here we use `Nelder-Mead`, but
`lbfgs` is also supported {% cite nelder_mead_1965 %}

> {% cite nocedal_wright_2006 %}. 

Reviewer: Could these citations be moved next to where they are actually referenced, it currently looks like a single link.

>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `experiment.dat`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Data`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Point type"*: `Square`
>        - *"Point Scale"*: `2.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

We can finally compare the result of our fitting against the "experimental"
dataset we provided. Prior to adding noise, the generated data had a value of 3,
which should closely match the output of our simulation(s) with MuSpinSim.

![Resultant plot of fitted solution against "experiment"](../../images/dissipation_example.png "The fitted output of MuSpinSim agrees with the provided data")

# Conclusion
{:.no_toc}

We have used the MuSpinSim tool to perform a variety of simulations that may be
of interest. In all cases, the workflow involved three Galaxy tool wrappers for
configuration, simulation and plotting respectively. In these examples, each
workflow defined the configuration parameters that were relevant for the

> experimental set up. For the full range of options, the standalone {% tool [PyMuonSuite AIRSS Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config) %} can be used as a reference.

Reviewer: This label for the link looks wrong - I believe it should be for muspinsim.

>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Hyperfine (with powder averaging) Example`
>    - *"Label for x axis"*: `t`
>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `hfine_powder.dat`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

![Resultant plot of asymmetry against time for the powdered example](../../images/powder_example.png "The asymmetry oscillates, but also decays over time")

As discussed earlier, our final plot is the average of 1000 individual
oscillations. Each has its own frequency, and so as time progresses they end up
increasingly out of phase. The result is that the oscillations decay as the
contributions begin to cancel each other out.

# Workflow 4 - Avoided Level Crossing

This workflow simulates a simple {ALC} experiment which involves three spins: a

> muon, an electron, and a hydrogen atom. Both muon and hydrogen are coupled via
> hyperfine coupling to the electron, and so we will need to define a spin
> interaction for each in our configuration file.

Reviewer: Still doesn't quite make sense to me, if its changed here I will update the docs as well in my latest pr.
```suggestion
muon, an electron, and a hydrogen atom. Both muon and hydrogen are coupled via
the hyperfine coupling to the electron, and so we will need to define a spin
interaction for each in our configuration file.
```

Author: I've reworded it again, added that `the` but also re-ordered the sentence and replaced `hyperfine coupling` with `hyperfine interaction` to avoid overusing the term `coupling`. Also added some further detail on the end to hopefully be more explicit.

>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 3`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `fitting g = 3.0369`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Green`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `experiment.dat`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Data`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Point type"*: `Square`
>        - *"Point Scale"*: `2.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

We can finally compare the result of our fitting against the "experimental"
dataset we provided. Prior to adding noise, the generated data had a value of 3,
which should closely match the output of our simulation(s) with MuSpinSim.

> ![Resultant plot of fitted solution against "experiment"](../../images/dissipation_example.png "The fitted output of MuSpinSim agrees with the provided data")

Reviewer: This is the wrong figure.
```suggestion
![Resultant plot of fitted solution against "experiment"](../../images/fitting_example.png "The fitted output of MuSpinSim agrees with the provided data")
```

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on
title: Working with MuSpinSim for simulating muon spin experiments
level: Advanced

> zenodo_link: https://sandbox.zenodo.org/record/1131061

Reviewer 2: Another spot to update Zenodo

questions:
- What is MuSpinSim?
- What can we do with MuSpinSim?
objectives:
- Learn about MuSpinSim and what it can do
- Learn about the MuSpinSim input keywords
- Learn about the types of muon spin experiments
time_estimation: 3H
key_points:

> - MuSpinSim can be used together to simulate a variety of different experimental conditions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MuSpinSim can be used to simulate many different experimental conditions and spin interactions
```

> - Galaxy can provide an interface to set the parameters as required your use case

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MuSpinSim can also fit simulation parameters, given reference data as a target
```

contributors:
- anish-mudaraddi
- patrick-austin
subtopic: muon-spectroscopy
priority: 3
abbreviations:
  ALC: Avoided Level Crossing
---

# Introduction

As in other materials science domains, in muon spectroscopy comparing the
results of simulation with experimentally observed properties is a staple tool
for gaining insight into the structure of interest. There are various types of
coupling, and a variety of possible experimental setups that may be desirable to
simulate. A more in depth discussion of the theory of spin dynamics in the
context of muon spectroscopy can be found
[in the main MuSpinSim documentation](https://muon-spectroscopy-computational-project.github.io/muspinsim/).

This tutorial covers a number of workflows, which reflect the different
capabilities of MuSpinSim:

- Coupling between the muon and electrons/atomic nuclei by:
  - hyperfine
  - dipolar
  - quadrupolar
  - Zeeman
- Simulation of external magnetic field:
  - zero field
  - transverse field
  - longitudinal field
- Resolution in:
  - time
  - field
  - temperature
- Fitting against experimental data

> However, the main structure of the workflow remains similar throughout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the main structure of the workflow remains similar throughout. You do not need to follow every workflow to complete the tutorial – we recommend you follow Workflow 1 (Zeeman Coupling) to understand the basics, then pick and choose the ones that are most relevant to your interests.
```

> 1. Import each workflow for this tutorial using these [instructions](workflows/).
> 2. Open the editor for each workflow, and verify that all the required tools
>    are installed on your Galaxy instance, and have the same version(s) as the
>    tools in workflow. If this is not the case a dialogue box will warn you.
>
{: .hands_on}

# Workflow 1 - Zeeman Coupling

The Zeeman interaction is the interaction of any spin with an external magnetic
field. In MuSpinSim this mainly means a strong global field applied to the
entire experiment, though it is possible for the user to also set custom local
magnetic fields for individual spins (representing for example the effect of
nearby paramagnetic nuclei). The Hamiltonian written explicitly is:

$$
\mathcal{H}_Z = 2\pi\hbar\sum_i^N \gamma_i (\mathbf{B}+\mathbf{B}_i)\mathbf{S}_i
$$

The sum is intended over all spins, with the gyromagnetic ratios depending on
the nuclei's own properties. The magnetic field here was split in two parts, a
global and a local one which bears the index of the spin. Of course, both of
these can be zero, and by default are if the user does not specify anything.
$$\mathbf{S}_i$$ is the vector of spin operators.

> We can execute the workflow that uses Zeeman coupling in one go, but to aid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we will simulate a single muon in a magnetic field, where said field is strong enough to cause the muon to oscillate at 20 MHz. We can execute the workflow that uses Zeeman coupling in one go, but to aid
```

understanding we will describe each step in detail below.

## MuSpinSim Configure

The first step is to generate a configuration file for the rest of the process.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config/muspinsim_config/1.1.0+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `zeeman`
>    - *"Spins"*:
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `Zeeman`
>          - *"Index of coupled spin"*: `1`
>          - *"Zeeman coupling vector"*: `0 0 20.0/muon_gyr`

> >    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:

Reviewer 2: Possible point of confusion: there is a "Fields" option in this section, but we don't specify a field, even though there is one causing the Zeeman coupling. Why is that?

(I'm not entirely sure what the reasoning is myself, to be honest. Is it just that the Zeeman coupling sets the field implicitly? Or is Zeeman just assumed to set a local field, and you can add global fields on top, and it makes more sense when you add more spins?)

Edit: now feeling pretty sure it's Zeeman for (possibly very localised) fields within the sample, Fields for (uniform) fields outside the sample.
i.e. while we're modelling a single muon, it's interacting with some sample around it, and that sample has some internal field, and that's what the Zeeman coupling represents.
But I could be wrong about this, so probably double-check with Leandro.

Reviewer: @elichad Yes that is correct, the Zeeman parameter computes a local field between two particles due to their charge, the field parameter is used as a global external field effecting the whole system.

Author: I'll expand on the above suggestion (`In this example, ...`) to make the distinction explicit.

>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 0.1, 100)`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `No`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file zeeman` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

The output of this tool is a `txt` file, formatted for MuSpinSim to use for the
the simulation itself. While there are a lot of parameters being defined, we can
focus on the *"Interactions to simulate"* section. Here we define only one
coupling, Zeeman, and we define its direction (aligned with the $$z$$ axis),

> strength ($$20.0$$) and units. The coupling value is implicitly assumed to be in

Reviewer 2: Personal opinion: I don't much like the use of TeX formatting for regular numbers and units. I find it a bit distracting due to the changes in font size, and with my most pedantic hat on, units aren't meant to be in italicised text anyway...

Author: This is another one that's inherited from where I copied the content from: [examples.md](https://github.com/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim/blob/main/docs/docs/examples.md) I don't have any strong feelings on this, other than that the approach should be consistent (i.e. if we use them in the MSS docs we should use them here, if we don't want to use them here then we shouldn't in the MSS docs).

Reviewer 2: +1 for consistency. It looks like the MSS docs only use TeX where symbols are needed (most obvious in example 5).

Author: So approach should be:
 - Use TeX for equations involving symbols: `$\gamma_\mu B = 20 \,\mathrm{MHz}$`
 - Use TeX for variables represented by symbols: `$\Delta_1$`
 - Don't use TeX for values only using roman: `135.54 MHz`
 - Don't use TeX for variables only using roman: `low T`, `high T`
 - Use `\mathrm{}` on units that appear in TeX

To me there are a couple of less clear cases:
 - Values that use greek letters: `$0.1\,\mu s$`
   - [ ] I suppose we have to use TeX as we need the `\mu` (though in this case we should use `\mathrm{}` as well
   - [ ] Alternatively could use `u` as a stand in for `$\mu$`
   - [ ] Could try only TeXing the `\mu`, i.e. `0.1$\mathrm{\mu}$s`, but not sure if that looks good or not
 - Equations that only use roman: `$T = 1 \,\mathrm{K}$`
   - [ ] Currently this uses TeX like other equations meaning
   - [ ] Alternatively could just just write it plain (but it would then look weird next to `$T=\infty$` which needs the infinity symbol

Preferences?

Reviewer 2: µ exists in Unicode so it should work fine in plaintext. So `0.1 µs`.

For the second one, stick with TeX. I think there's TeX wherever `=` is used (it is a symbol, after all).

terms of frequency ($$MHz$$); this is more intuitive when viewing the final plot
of the data. MuSpinSim will therefore interpret this as "a magnetic field strong
enough to cause oscillations at $$20MHz$$" using the inverse of the muon's
gyromagnetic ratio $$135.5388 MHz/T$$ (i.e. a field strength of $$0.1475T$$).
MuSpinSim supports a number of keyword arguments (we can also note the use of

> the Python `range` function) and these are described

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Python `range` function to model the system over a period of time) and these are described
```

Although not explicitly stated, the unit for time is $$\mu s$$.

## MuSpinSim Simulate

Now that we have defined the conditions, we can simulate them during the next
step of the workflow. For this we only need to provide our configuration file as
an input.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Simulate](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim/muspinsim/1.1.0+galaxy1) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Configuration file containing simulation parameters"*: `muspinsim input file zeeman` (Input dataset)
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-collection %} `Muspinsim output collection` (Output dataset)
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file zeeman` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

In principle the output from this step could be a collection of many `.dat`
files, however in our case there will only be one dataset in this collection. By
default only the collection and not the dataset will be visible in our history,
however it can be viewed in the hidden section. In addition a log file is

> produced including time stamps for the various stages of the simulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on configuration, the collection created in this step could contain many `.dat`
files. In our case, however, it contains only one. By
default only the collection as a whole is visible in our history,
and clicking on the collection will allow us to view the dataset(s) within it. 

In addition a log file is
produced including time stamps for the various stages of the simulation.
```

## MuSpinSim Plot

Finally, we can visualise our data by plotting it. This tool will parse the
`.dat` format of the previous step and provide some simple options to control
the appearance of the plot, which are given below.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Plot](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_plot/muspinsim_plot/3.5.1+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Zeeman Example`
>    - *"Label for x axis"*: `t`
>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:

> >        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `zeeman.dat`

Reviewer 2: This instruction requires the user to find the hidden dataset `zeeman.dat` file in the hidden datasets, which they may not know how to do. Recommend instead selecting the 'Dataset collection' input and then choosing the collection from the previous step (it'll be autofilled, which is extra convenient).

Reviewer 2: Applies throughout

Author: Just having a look at this, one thing that's obvious now (that I didn't realise when running these as workflows) was if a collection is hidden, it doesn't get autoselected AND there is no option to browse collections like there is for datasets (browsing also shows hidden ones). So any places where we're hiding them needs to be changed.

Also, do you think we need to highlight that (running the tool manually) you'll need to switch from dataset to collection? We can swap `{% icon param-file %}` to `{% icon param-file %}` but I'm wondering how obvious that is to a user and whether a short sentance to explain the difference (either just for the Zeeman example, or for each workflow)?

>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

Using the above parameters, or running the entire workflow at once, we should
see the following plot as our final output. Note that the period of this
oscillation ($$0.05 \mu s$$) matches our input of $$20 MHz$$.

> ![Resultant plot of asymmetry against time for the Zeeman Example](../../images/zeeman_example.png "The asymmetry oscillates about 0 over the time of the simulation")

Reviewer 2: Since the title (the part in quotes) is rendered in the main text, I recommend moving the existing alt text there, and leaving a brief description of the shape in the alt text.
```suggestion
![Plot resembling a cosine wave](../../images/zeeman_example.png "Asymmetry against time for the Zeeman Example. The asymmetry oscillates about 0 over the time of the simulation")
```

Reviewer 2: Applies throughout

Author: The [material on this](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/contributing/tutorials/create-new-tutorial-content/tutorial.html#adding-images-with-captions) has an example where the caption doesn't reference the image at all, it's just the science that the image is illustrating (which I'm not sure we really have for these examples?). Obviously if we think moving descriptive content to the caption is meaningful for our example, then we should do that regardless of what the "best" practice is - just thought it worth referencing the Galaxy guidance on this.

Reviewer 2: I personally find it slightly odd if a figure caption doesn't say what the image is of, but it's a preference thing and not hugely important.

# Workflow 2 - Hyperfine Coupling

The hyperfine interaction is often the main interaction we care about in muon
spin resonance simulations. It represents an interaction between an electronic
spin and a nuclear one (muon or otherwise). While physically it is often
distinguished in two terms - a Fermi contact term due to the electronic spin

> density at the site of the nucleus as well as a dipolar part at a distance -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
density at the site of the nucleus, as well as a dipolar part at a distance -
```

these are effectively both incorporated in a single $$3\times3$$ symmetric tensor
with non-zero trace. The following interaction between spins is written like this:

$$
\mathcal{H}_{hfine} = 2\pi\hbar \sum_{i < j}^N \mathbf{S}_i\mathbf{A}_{ij}\mathbf{S}_j
$$

> (assuming a hyperfine tensor in frequency units). MuSpinSim also makes sure that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(assuming a hyperfine tensor $$\mathbf{A}_{ij}$$ in frequency units). MuSpinSim also makes sure that
```

hyperfine terms can only be defined when one of the two spins is confirmed to be
an electron.

While there are some changes from the previous example, the overall workflow is
largely the same.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As in the previous example, we start with configuration.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config/muspinsim_config/1.1.0+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `hfine`
>    - *"Spins"*:
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `e`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `hyperfine`
>          - *"Index of nuclear coupled spin"*: `1`

> >          - *"Hyperfine coupling tensor"*: `10 0 0` `0 10 0` `0 0 10`

Reviewer 2: If this formatting is supposed to suggest line breaks, I think that should be more explicit. 

It does still work if you just copy-paste it all onto one line though.

Author: If the parsing can understand either all one line, separate lines etc. (which it apparently can) then I think readability is probably what matters most - to me `10 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 10` is just a series of numbers, but even having it as one backticked string but increasing the spacing like `10 0 0  0 10 0  0 0 10` makes it clear(er?) that it's representing 3 by 3 matrix with 10s on the diagonal.

Reviewer 2: I agree it's clearer, but not that it's clear. If it's possible to get a block like 
```
10 0 0
0 10 0
0 0 10
```
to appear nicely within that section, that'd be my preference.
We could also use something like verbatim "`10 0 0` (new line) `0 10 0` (new line) `0 0 10`" - it's clumsier but better explains what we're trying to get the user to input.

> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-collection %} `Muspinsim output collection` (Output dataset)
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file hfine` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

## MuSpinSim Plot

Similarly aside from labelling there are no differences with the plotting
parameters.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Plot](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_plot/muspinsim_plot/3.5.1+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Hfine Example`
>    - *"Label for x axis"*: `t`
>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `hfine.dat`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

> ![Resultant plot of asymmetry against time for the Zeeman Example](../../images/hfine_example.png "The asymmetry oscillates above 0 over the time of the simulation")

Reviewer: Just noticed this text is the same as the first example.

Author: Great catch, thanks

>    - *"Name"*: `hfine_powder`
>    - *"Spins"*:
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `e`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `hyperfine`
>          - *"Index of nuclear coupled spin"*: `1`
>          - *"Index of electronic coupled spin"*: `2`
>          - *"Hyperfine coupling tensor"*: `5 2 3` `2 5 2` `3 2 5`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `0.01`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Orientations"*:
>        - *"Orientations 1"*:
>          - *"Orientation"*: `Euler angles helper function (eulrange(n))`
>          - *"n"*: `10`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:

> >          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 0.1)`

Reviewer 2: This time range doesn't match the workflow or the plot
```suggestion
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 1.0)`
```

>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `No`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim input file hfine_powder` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

Here we have made a few changes. First, we have defined an external magnetic
field of $$0.01T$$, aligned with the $$z$$ axis (other orientations can be
achieved by providing a vector rather than scalar here).

We have also defined the orientations needed to do our powder average. It is
possible to define a specific range of angles for the average (see
[the main MuSpinSim documentation](https://muon-spectroscopy-computational-project.github.io/muspinsim/input/#orientation))
but there are also helper functions that cover a full sphere. We are using

> `eulrange`, which will generate a grid of $$n \times n \times n$$ (1000)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`eulrange`, which will generate a grid of $$n \times n \times n$$ (in this case, 1000)
```

weighted Euler angles.

## MuSpinSim Simulate

> As all our changes are captured in the config file, this step operates exactly

Reviewer 2: This abbreviation has slipped through in a few places
```suggestion
As all our changes are captured in the configuration file, this step operates exactly
```

defining our $$x$$ and $$y$$ axes, and now have a `range` of values for our
magnetic field. Note that we have also changed the helper function for
orientation angles to `zcw`. This is cheaper as it only generates $$n$$ polar
angles, but should only be used for cases where polar angles are sufficient.
This is the case here thanks to the experiment's longitudinal polarisation.

## MuSpinSim Simulate

As all our changes are captured in the config file, this step operates exactly
as before.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Simulate](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim/muspinsim/1.1.0+galaxy1) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Configuration file containing simulation parameters"*: `muspinsim input file alc` (Input dataset)
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-collection %} `Muspinsim output collection` (Output dataset)
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file alc` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

## MuSpinSim Plot

Here we define two file series to plot, but use the same dataset for each.

> Effectively this will give us both points and a connecting line between them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Effectively this will give us both points and a connecting line between them.

Remember that our x-axis is now the magnetic field, not time - we set this by selecting the ALC experiment type earlier.
```

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Plot](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_plot/muspinsim_plot/3.5.1+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:

> >    - *"Plot Title"*: `Hyperfine (with powder averaging) Example`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Avoided Level Crossing Example`
```

>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `alc.dat`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `alc.dat`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Blue`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Point Type"*: `Square`
>        - *"Point Scale"*: `2.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

![Resultant plot of asymmetry against magnetic field for the ALC example](../../images/alc_example.png "The plot shows two distinct peaks in response to the magnetic field")

# Workflow 5 - Temperature

In this example we look at the effect of temperature on the system. Many of the
parameters are the same as they were in
[Workflow 2](#workflow-2---hyperfine-coupling), but with an external static
field of $$1T$$. This means that the difference in energy between the "up" and
"down" states for the electron is given by:

$$

> \Delta E = 2\pi\hbar \gamma_e \cdot (1 \,\mathrm{T}) =  2\pi\hbar \cdot (28024.95 \,\mathrm{MHz}) \approx 1.159\cdot 10^{-4} \,\mathrm{eV}

Reviewer 2: \mathrm 🙌 It actually improves the readability a lot more than I thought it would, we should make sure it's used in the other workflows too where needed

the area of validity of the high field approximation. In terms of temperature
scale, we expect the high temperature ($$T \approx \infty$$) regime will be
valid for:

$$
T \gg \frac{1.159\cdot 10^{-4} \,\mathrm{eV}}{ k_B} \approx 1.35 \,\mathrm{K}.
$$

For this reason, we make a comparison between two versions of the same system, one with $$T=\infty$$ and one with $$T = 1 \,\mathrm{K}$$, low enough to be out of the high temperature regime. The expected behaviour is as follows:

* the external field sets a base Larmor frequency of 135.54 MHz for the muon. The hyperfine interaction adds or subtracts 5 MHz based on whether the electron is up or down;
* for very low T, the electron will start entirely in one state, aligned with the external magnetic field. In this case we expect the signal to be a single cosinusoid at 140.54 MHz;
* for very high T, the electron will be in a statistical ensemble of up and down state, and we expect the signal to be an average of two cosinusoids at 140.54 and 130.54 MHz respectively.

## MuSpinSim Configure

As we are simulating two different temperatures, we need a configuration file

> for each.

Reviewer 2: This isn't true - we can just add two temperatures to the config, and muspinsim will write a file for each. This is a good opportunity to explain that behaviour.

Reviewer 2: That said, it does make plotting more difficult, as you have to go and dig for the hidden files to plot them in the same image.

Probably the easiest way is to click the 'hidden' tab in the history (which is hopefully covered in more basic tutorials), and manually unhide the datasets before plotting.

Author: wrt this and the above comment, I only learned about the concept of `_file_ranges` in MSS after writing this (agree it's a very natural point to introduce it), and the original workflow had two inputs so assumed it **had** to be that way. I'll experiment with the workflow and see if there's a way of extracting the two files from the dataset automatically (obviously possible manually as you describe).

Author: OK so I haven't been able to get exactly the behaviour we want (in a workflow context). I can wire it up like I would any other, with two temps in the config and providing a collection to the plot:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61705287/211831897-3ba309c9-89f5-41b6-9ce2-edf7302e6817.png)

The collection output from contains two datasets, but I can see no way of "splitting" them and feeding dataset 0 into the plotting tool to show as a line, and dataset 1 to have points. Running like this generates two distinct graphs that are using the same exact settings to generate it:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61705287/211832650-6971cd9d-2f00-4162-bb2e-43b1ec3ccbd6.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61705287/211832697-7895a0c6-7cd2-4892-b4c2-bf6b967b04ec.png)

So it's a choice between having two configs/simulations but one plot, or one config/simulation but we generate two graphs of low/high T which cannot be labeled/coloured differently. Personally I think keeping things as they are is better, rather than not being able to associate each graph with it's experimental conditions. What do you think @elichad ?

Reviewer 2: A third option - there are some 'Collection Operations' tools available on usegalaxy.eu which can be used to extract datasets from collections (`Extract dataset` specifically - not sure if there's a tool out there that just unpacks every dataset from a collection). For example, this workflow creates the desired plot (the two `Extract dataset` steps are set to different indexes):
![Workflow using Extract Dataset tool to unpack the collection before plotting](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20683271/211876426-5f201e2d-9869-4e48-92db-081ea6c09169.png)
We can enable these tools on Muon Galaxy if needed. Don't know if it's actually a better option though.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config/muspinsim_config/1.1.0+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `Low T` / `High T`
>    - *"Spins"*:
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>        - *"Spins to simulate 2"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `e`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `hyperfine`
>          - *"Index of nuclear coupled spin"*: `1`
>          - *"Hyperfine coupling tensor"*: `10 0 0` `0 10 0` `0 0 10`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `1.0`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:

> >          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 0.1, 100)`

Reviewer 2: This doesn't match the workflow and isn't enough samples to produce a smooth curve
```suggestion
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 0.1, 1000)`
```

>      - *"Temperatures"*:
>        - *"Temperature 1"*:

> >          - *"temperature"*: `1.0` / `inf`

Reviewer 2: If you copy this in literally, it doesn't work
```suggestion
>      - *"Temperatures"*:
>        - *"Temperature 1"*:
>          - *"temperature"*: `1.0`
>        - *"Temperature 2"*:
>          - *"temperature"*: `inf`
```

Edit - I realised that this is supposed to represent two separate files. I glossed over that on first read (even though I'm trying to be thorough - so users could well make the same mistake)

>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Configuration file containing simulation parameters"*: `muspinsim input file Low T` / `muspinsim input file High T` (Input dataset)
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-collection %} `Muspinsim output collection` (Output dataset)
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file Low T` / `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file High T` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

## MuSpinSim Plot

We will use two files as inputs to the plot, however these are now displaying
different data (low and high temperature).

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Plot](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_plot/muspinsim_plot/3.5.1+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Temperature Example`
>    - *"Label for x axis"*: `t`
>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:

> >        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 3`

Reviewer 2: 'step 3' and 'step 4' (below) don't make sense here - they're referring to workflow steps rather than conceptual steps.

The whole label needs reworking anyway depending on how we treat the collection files from the single config.

Author: Yeah this is based on what you see when you "view" the workflow:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61705287/211584464-52a9fe7c-eb4a-4152-8184-41d4d47db661.png)
Will revisit after experimenting with the format of the workflow.

>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Green`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 4`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Blue`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Square`

> >        - *"Line width"*: `2.0`

Reviewer 2: Adding labels to match the plot.
```suggestion
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 3`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `T=1 K`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Green`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 4`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `High T Limit`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Blue`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Square`
>        - *"Line width"*: `2.0`
```

> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 8 and data 7` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

![Resultant plot of the low and high temperature systems](../../images/temperature_example.png "The asymmetry oscillates differently in the low and high temperature regimes")

The high temperature limit corresponds to the sum of two slightly out of phase
cosinusoids, while the low temperature example is closer to a single wave. You
can try experimenting with changing the temperature and re-running the
simulation to see how it affects the result.

# Workflow 6 - Dissipation

Here we introduce another type of interaction for the muon: dissipation. Our
muon is polarised in the $$x$$ direction, but the field applied is aligned with
$$z$$. Under this perpendicular field, we expect the oscillations to decay
according to the dissipation strength we provide.

> <warning-title>Selecting the right dataset</warning-title>
> If using a separate history for each workflow, switch to the history
> containing only `dissipation_theory.dat` now. If sharing one history between
> workflows, make sure that *"Theoretical Datapoints for Dissipation"* is

> > manually set to `dissipation_theory.dat`.

Reviewer 2: I found this warning came a bit too early for when it's needed if following along manually - though I understand the need to get the history set up right at the start of the workflow. Suggestion tweaks this warning so it makes more sense where it is.

```suggestion
> <warning-title>Include reference data</warning-title>
> Make sure that the data file `dissipation_theory.dat` is in the history you use for this workflow (we imported it in the [Get Data](#get-data) step at the start of this tutorial, you may need to do that again if you're using a new history here). We will compare our results to this file in the plotting stage!
>
> If you're using the prebuilt workflow, make sure `dissipation_theory.dat` is selected in step 2 ("Theoretical Datapoints for Dissipation") before running the workflow.

Author: The (perhaps too impicit) issue that @joelvdavies had, and that this looks to address, is the automatic dataset selection by Galaxy will grab the most recent `txt` file in your history when auto selecting (hence the history should **only** contain one dataset. Else you will need to **manually** select the right one. Having it in your history is a necessary requirement, but not sufficient to avoid trouble in all cases.

Will try and add to the warning to make it more explicit about what we're warning against here.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I tried to cover that in my suggestion - to me it didn't feel like as much of a problem in the manual process compared to the prebuilt workflow, since when you do the plotting manually you often have to change the automatically selected dataset anyway.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config/muspinsim_config/1.1.0+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `dissipation`
>    - *"Spins"*:
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `dissipation`
>          - *"Index of spin with dissipation"*: `1`
>          - *"Dissipation"*: `5.0`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `2.0/muon_gyr`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 1.0, 50)`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `No`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):

> >    - {% icon param-file %} `out_file` (Output dataset)

Reviewer 2: `out_file` looks out of date

>
{: .hands_on}

We have changed our interaction type, however as before our strength is
interpreted as $$5MHz$$. As we also specified a field which causes oscillations
with frequency $$2MHz$$, we expect to see:

$$
A(t) = \frac{1}{2} \cos(4\pi t)e^{-5t} 
$$

Where $$A$$ is the asymmetry, and $$t$$ is in $$\mu s$$. 

## MuSpinSim Simulate

As all our changes are captured in the config file, this step operates exactly
as before.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Simulate](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim/muspinsim/1.1.0+galaxy1) %} with the following parameters:

> >    - {% icon param-file %} *"Configuration file containing simulation parameters"*: `Output dataset 'out_file' from step 1` (Input dataset)

Reviewer 2: This label also looks out of date

> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-collection %} `Muspinsim output collection` (Output dataset)

> >    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file hfine` (Output dataset)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file dissipation` (Output dataset)
```

>
{: .hands_on}

## MuSpinSim Plot

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Plot](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_plot/muspinsim_plot/3.5.1+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Dissipation Example`
>    - *"Label for x axis"*: `t`
>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 3`
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Simulation`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Green`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Point type"*: `Square`
>        - *"Point Scale"*: `3.0`
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:

> >        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 2`

Reviewer 2: Again, steps 2 and 3 don't work here - plus this one shouldn't even be a muspinsim output
```suggestion
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `dissipation_theory.dat`
```

Author: Not according to the workflow: step 2 is asking for an input, and the output is the file you provided.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61705287/211587106-f7930fbe-3af3-4d07-b316-965fba477ed6.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61705287/211587311-0520f69a-34b1-4980-b7c2-1fceabd4e1e5.png)
But weird workflow terminology and "logic" aside I agree this should be more informative and represent the name of the dataset in the history.

>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Theory`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

Here we would like to compare the output of MuSpinSim with the theoretical
expression given earlier. For this we need to provide a second dataset as input
to the plot in the expected format. You should have imported such a dataset at

> the start of this tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
expression given earlier. For this we provide the reference data file `dissipation_theory.dat` that we imported earlier (see [Get Data](#get-data) if you need to re-import it).
```

![Resultant plot of asymmetry dissipating over time](../../images/dissipation_example.png "The output of MuSpinSim agrees with the theoretical behaviour")

# Workflow 7 - Fitting 

Finally, we can fit data with MuSpinSim. As in the previous workflow the
experimental setup for this will be a dissipation interaction, however the
strength of the dissipation will be the variable controlling our fit.

While experimental data would usually be the target for fitting, here we will
use the analytical solution with added noise.

> > <warning-title>Selecting the right dataset</warning-title>
> > If using a separate history for each workflow, switch to the history
> > containing only `experiment.dat` now. If sharing one history between
> > workflows, make sure that *"Fitting Data"* is manually set to
> > `experiment.dat`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> <warning-title>Include reference data</warning-title>
> Make sure that the data file `experiment.dat` is in the history you use for this workflow (we imported it in the [Get Data](#get-data) step at the start of this tutorial, you may need to do that again if you're using a new history here). We will compare our results to this file in the plotting stage!
>
> If you're using the prebuilt workflow, make sure `experiment.dat` is selected in the "Fitting Data" input before running the workflow.
```

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config/muspinsim_config/1.1.0+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Name"*: `fitting`
>    - *"Spins"*:
>      - *"Spins to simulate"*:
>        - *"Spins to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Species"*: `mu`
>    - *"Spin Interactions"*:
>      - *"Interactions to simulate"*:
>        - *"Interactions to simulate 1"*:
>          - *"Choose interaction type"*: `dissipation`
>          - *"Index of spin with dissipation"*: `1`
>          - *"Dissipation"*: `g`
>    - *"Experiment Parameters"*:
>      - *"Experiment type"*: `custom`
>      - *"X axis"*: `time`
>      - *"Y axis"*: `asymmetry`
>      - *"Fields"*:
>        - *"Fields 1"*:
>          - *"Field (T)"*: `1.0/muon_gyr`
>      - *"Average axes"*: `orientation`
>      - *"Euler Convention"*: `ZYZ`
>      - *"Times"*:
>        - *"Time 1"*:
>          - *"Time"*: `range(0, 1.0, 50)`
>    - *"Fitting Parameters"*:
>      - *"Fit experimental data with simulations"*: `Yes`
>      - *"Method to use to fit the data"*: `Nelder-Mead`

> >      - *"Variable to fit to the experimental datas"*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>      - *"Variable to fit to the experimental data"*:
```

Author: Galaxy workflow's automatic pluralisation strikes again

>        - *"Variable to fit to the experimental data 1"*:
>          - *"Name of the variable"*: `g`
>          - *"Starting value"*: `0.1`
>          - *"minimum bound"*: `0.0`
>          - *"maximum bound*: `inf`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):

> >    - {% icon param-file %} `out_file` (Output dataset)

Reviewer 2: Label out of date

>
{: .hands_on}

In order to perform the fitting, we have replaced the numerical *"Dissipation"*
with a variable, `g`. We then need to provide details of this variable in the
*"Fitting Parameters"* section: it's starting value, minimum and maximum bound.
Finally we need to provide the method to use. Here we use
`Nelder-Mead`{% cite nelder_mead_1965 %}, but
`lbfgs`{% cite nocedal_wright_2006 %} is also supported. 

## MuSpinSim Simulate

At this stage of the process we need to include our "experimental" data that we
wish to fit to, which should have been imported into our history.

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Simulate](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim/muspinsim/1.1.0+galaxy1) %} with the following parameters:

> >    - {% icon param-file %} *"Configuration file containing simulation parameters"*: `Output dataset 'out_file' from step 1` (Input dataset)

Reviewer 2: Label out of date

>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Experiment data to fit (.dat) (Optional)"*: `experiment.dat` (Input dataset)
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-collection %} `Muspinsim output collection` (Output dataset)
>    - {% icon param-file %} `muspinsim log for muspinsim input file fitting` (Output dataset)
>    - {% icon param-file %} `fit report for muspinsim input file fitting` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

> Note that in addition to the usual outputs, which details the number of
> iterations and error on the final, fitted simulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that in addition to the usual outputs, we get a "fit report" which details the number of iterations, optimal variable values, and error on the final, fitted simulation.
```

## MuSpinSim Plot

> <hands-on-title>Tool details</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. {% tool [MuSpinSim Plot](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_plot/muspinsim_plot/3.5.1+galaxy0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - *"Plot Title"*: `Fitting Example`
>    - *"Label for x axis"*: `t`
>    - *"Label for y axis"*: `Asymmetry`
>    - *"Output File Type"*: `PNG`
>    - *"Muspinsim File Series"*:
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 1"*:

> >        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `Output dataset 'muspinsim_results' from step 3`

Reviewer 2: Label out of date

Reviewer 2: Really we should just double check all of these once we're done editing everything else, I could well have missed some

Author: Can't find any further references to `out_file` or `from step`. I would say I think you found them all (which is a huge help and really grateful you had the time to go through in such detail) but then I left them all in the first place so me thinking there are no errors isn't worth a whole lot.

>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `fitting g = 3.0369`
>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Green`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Line`
>        - *"Line type"*: `Solid`
>        - *"Line width"*: `1.0`
>      - *"Muspinsim File Series 2"*:
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Muspinsim Experiment Data (.dat)"*: `experiment.dat`

> >        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Data`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>        - *"Muspinsim Experiment Label"*: `Experiment Data`
```

Author: Changed the workflow as well

>        - *"Line/Point Color"*: `Black`
>        - *"Series Type"*: `Points`
>        - *"Point type"*: `Square`
>        - *"Point Scale"*: `2.0`
> 2. Should generate the following output(s):
>    - {% icon param-file %} `MuSpinSim Plot on data 4` (Output dataset)
>
{: .hands_on}

We can finally compare the result of our fitting against the "experimental"
dataset we provided. Prior to adding noise, the generated data had a value of 3,
which should closely match the output of our simulation(s) with MuSpinSim.

![Resultant plot of fitted solution against "experiment"](../../images/fitting_example.png "The fitted output of MuSpinSim agrees with the provided data")

# Conclusion

We have used the MuSpinSim tool to perform a variety of simulations that may be
of interest. In all cases, the workflow involved three Galaxy tool wrappers for
configuration, simulation and plotting respectively. In these examples, each
workflow defined the configuration parameters that were relevant for the

> experimental set up. For the full range of options, the standalone {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config/muspinsim_config/1.1.0+galaxy0) %} can be used as a reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have used the MuSpinSim tool to perform a variety of simulations representing different experimental conditions.
In all cases, the workflow involves three Galaxy tool wrappers, handling
configuration, simulation and plotting. In these examples, each
workflow defined the configuration parameters that were relevant for the
experimental set up. For the full range of options, the standalone {% tool [MuSpinSim Configure](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim_config/muspinsim_config/1.1.0+galaxy0) %} can be used as a reference.
```
